Walk them back now that we have a nice sign an authentication function.
It's time for us to generate the JWT token and actually send it to the user so we can start using it.
And you can see how JWT tokens work.
Now ideally what we want to do is something like this instead of returning just the data object that
is the user object with ID email name and other fields that the database may have.
Let's add a now other logic here.
I'm going to say that in here
we want to check something first.
First we want to check that we have data ID from whatever the response was just to make sure that we
indeed have the user that we need or the database return something that we can use.
And let's just add another check that our DOT e-mail and we can do other checks here but this should
be enough to verify that this data is in fact the user and we'll do a ternary operator.
I'm going to say if this exists then I want you to respond with the user data or if it doesn't.
Once again we can just use a promise that reject.
A really really useful function to use and for now just to simplify things we're going to respond with
whatever data we received you might actually want to return a string response here that doesn't give
away too much information because right now we would be potentially sending data to the front and from
the database which we don't really want to do.
But for debugging purposes it's nice to have now because if somehow something fails I can see.
All right what am I getting rejections with.
And hopefully help us debug better.
Now within here I like naming things nice and clean and in our case instead of just responding with
the data we want to do something where we create a user session.
So I'm going to change this to a function that we're going to create called create sessions and this
create Sessions is going to receive the data.
Object and this data object which hopefully is a user will be used and create sessions and create Sessions
is going to return a promise a promise that includes all the user information that we need plus the
Tokin the new token that we're going to generate.
So let's create this function I'm going to say Konst create sessions which is going to receive data
or let's just say user for now.
And this function is now going to create our session for the user.
Now in here we want to create the JJB token and return user data let's say and in order for us to create
a JWT token we need to install the JND package from as you know and B.M. if we go over here this is
the package we're going to use.
We simply run NPM install Jason tokin and they have nice simple documentation for us to use and you
can see that we can just create a token but by running this command nice and simple.
So let's do that.
I'm going to run NPM install when I close our container for now.
And Ron the and so for Jason Webb token and that was nice and quick.
Now once we have that too if we scroll down we simply require it and then sign the token.
I'm going to copy this.
Let's go all the way up here.
I'm going to require the token and then I use Konst here.
All right so we have the JWT object now that we can use to create token and in here let's create a function
called sign token now.
And they create session.
I'm going to grab the user or email and ID which again and we check for over here so we make sure that
we have data ID data and email from the parameter user that we receive.
And we want to create a token that is going to be the sign token.
But again I would like keeping things simple and function small song and create a new function called
sign token and this sign token is going to receive the let's say e-mail of the user to use in order
to sign the token.
All right let's create a new function Konst sign token and again making functions nice and small means
that well we can test them easier when we actually write tests.
It's going to be simpler because while there are nice small chunks that we can unit test right and this
sign token function is going to receive the email.
And let's just have a JWT payload that we're going to use and this JWT payload is going to have the.
The email.
Now payload is just if you look at the documentation this is just common naming If you see over here
we can sign the token with some sort of data because remember GW tokens actually hold data.
When you decode it you can actually find out what object it contains.
And I said that we don't really want sensitive information in a JWT tokin in our case.
Email is fine.
You might want to use ID but something that might be useful for you if you want to decode this token
and use it later on.
For us let's just keep the email as the payload of JWT so that we sign a token with the user's email
and we can simply just return here and finally sign our token.
So I'm just copying from whatever the documentation said you want to use JWT sign and this payload is
going to be the payload that we just created.
And here you want a secret in order to sign this again something very very important that you don't
want people to know and as soon as I said that something should go blank in your head and that means
well that's a very very secure thing that you should probably have an environmental variable for.
For now though remember with environmental variables you'll have to do process thought and thought let's
say JWT secret or something like that but because we've already gone through that and we already know
how to do it I'm just going to keep it simple and say JWT secret and we're going to sign up with that.
And by the way with GWG you can do some interesting things.
For example you can give it options such as expires Dan and we can give it how many days or seconds.
JWT token expires in which is a really nice feature.
So let's just say two days.
For now just for fun even though with JWT you can do this.
One of the main drawbacks with them is that when it comes to users signing out it's kind of hard to
revoke these tokens and there are ways around it but by using red S and our method of sessions it's
going to become really really easy to actually remove the token any time the user signs up.
But anyway for now let's leave it like that.
We're just returning a JWT token now we're just signing the token and now we have a token and create
sessions nice and simple.
Now let me save this and run my docker container again.
We just run docker compose up.
It's already been built so we don't need the dash dash.
Bill
all right.
Looks like there's no errors.
That's always a good sign.
Let's come back here.
We see that we're signing the token and now the next thing we want to do is do something with the stock
and to start off let's just return this token to the front and so we can actually see that we actually
receive a JWT token.
I'm going to simply say return.
Well what should be returned here.
Remember we don't really want to do a response but Jason because we want to keep all those responses
to sign and authentication.
We see that here we're returning or we want to return the Create sessions or a promise don't reject
in our case.
Ideally no matter what in here we want to have a dog then that has a response.
So let's do a response Daut Jaison or let's actually return the session if we received the session from
create session and we're going to simply say response.
Jaison just return whatever the session is and whatever the session is is whatever we return from this
create session function.
This one for now because we're going to be sending Jaison.
Let's just say that we want success to be true and we'll give let's say user ID to be the idea that
we received from the user from the database and also give the token just like that.
And just to make this nice and concise again because it's the key is equal to the value I can just leave
it at tokin.
So now we're sending back a token and our user ID.
Now this user object if you remember Usually we return the entire thing and would have the profile information
such as email name so that right away as we sign in we get that information.
Now here's the thing that we're going to do because up until now when a user signed in we would run
the handle sign and function and just return the user object.
But there's a nicer cleaner way of doing this and we want to keep your endpoints really descriptive.
And you want to make sure that seinen just handles the signing.
It's either true or false.
Are you signed in.
Are you not signed in.
Are you authenticated.
Are you not authenticated.
And ideally we use something like get profile ID to actually get the users information.
Again we're just being very descriptive similar with how we do pure functions.
We're just making sure that each endpoint does one thing and one thing really well and that's a nicer
design to have because it makes more sense and it's a lot cleaner.
And as you extend things it's easier to understand when a new developer comes on.
They'll be able to say oh okay well this is what we're probably using to get the profile.
This is probably what we're using to sign in.
It might be surprising to some to say see that we're returning an entire user object with the sign in
and point so just to keep things clean and rational in our heads I'm going to only return the ID and
then on the front end I actually do a get request to the profile and because we have the user id Now
we can just request that profile information.
Let's test this out.
I'm going to save and go back to my app.
I'm going to sign out.
Let's do a at a dot.com a I'm going to open up the developer tools go to network tab make sure everything's
cleared and click sign in.
All right.
Looks like we were not able to sign in.
If I click on the sign in oh look at that I have success.
True user ID is one.
And we have ourselves a token.
Fantastic.
So this is our token that now authenticates us and we make sure that now the server can identify this
browser this client as well user id want.
Very very cool.
But why were we not able to log in well this is something that you have to be careful of every time
you change whatever the expected return is up until this point.
We had handle sign in do a certain thing and that is it returned the entire user object.
As soon as we change something on the back to return something that the client didn't know the change
happened we might break things.
And we want to be conscious of that.
Any time you return something different than what the client expects and what the front end developers
expect that you make sure that you adjust for this.
So if we go back to our front end code let's go to our seinen component.
I believe that's where we do the seinen and we see over here that as we scroll down on submit seinen
we do the signing and point with the post we send the e-mail and the password.
And then finally here when we get a response we do a check saying user dot ID and then we load the user
and do the route change.
But we actually don't have a user dot I.D. anymore do we.
Because what we return is actually an object with success.
True user ID and a token.
So we now have to change the front end to perhaps say that this is going to be data and this data is
going to contain a user ID and if that matches then we want to load up the user which right now we actually
don't have.
So I'm going to leave that the way we have it for now.
It might not load any of the users because there's no user object.
I'm going to change it to data for now.
And this might fail and it's something we'll come back to because we might want to do a get request
now to profile ID with the idea that we have.
So let me just say that go back let's sign in again I'm going to close this a to a dot.com a sign in.
All right.
We're logged into our app.
We have our authentication token now but we have a problem we have undefined.
That is there's no user name because we've only returned the ID and we've only returned the ID.
As I mentioned because we want to use the ID to actually get the user profile.
And the reason we want to do this is because we know that anything to do with the profile we want to
make sure these are guarded endpoints.
That is not everybody can just access them only authenticated users that have tokens can access it based
on what tokens they have.
All right in the next video we're going to add on to this and make sure that our authentication system
is working nicely.
I'll see in that one.
Buh-Bye.